# Internationalization
In this article you will learn to use **I18n** in your **Faalis** application.

## Ruby application
Faalis does use the traditional I18n system of Ruby on Rails framework. Instead it uses
[Fast Gettext](https://github.com/grosser/fast_gettext) ( A gettext impelemented in ruby
which is 3.5x faster and uses less memory ) and [gettext_i18n_rails](https://github.com/grosser/gettext_i18n_rails)
to internationalize Ruby applications.



## Javascript Application
Faalis provides a simple solution to internationalize you client side application too.
[angular_gettext](http://angular-gettext.rocketeer.be/) is a javascript package to internationalize
your client side application that supports **Angularjs** applications.
In order to use `angular_gettext` you should have a `nodejs` environment and install these packages
using `npm`:

* grunt
* grunt-cli
* grunt-angular-gettext

**Note**: These packages should install locally.

After installing above packages you have to visit the grunt file in `lib/tasks/grunt/Gruntfile.js`.
This file contains the tasks to extract and compile translations strings.

You can extract strings which marked for translation from your javascript application using:

```bash
$ bundle exec rake faalis:js:i18n:collect
```

this task create a raw `.pot` file ( standard gettext .pot ) including all the strings. This file
does not specified any language by default. You have to add a language header to this file and rename
it to be like `<name>.<lang_code>.pot`.

**NOTE**: adding language header to a `*.pot` file is very easy you can use several application or do it
manually.

After you translated the strings you can compile them like:

```bash
$ bundle exec rake faalis:js:i18n:compile
```

You have to specify the output of compiled string so each output should be specific to a language,
for instance you should use `translation.fa.js` as output for compiled
strings in `farsi`. Here is an example:

```javascript
        nggettext_compile: {
            all: {
                options: {
                    module: "Dashboard"
                },
                files: {
                    'app/assets/javascripts/locale/translations.fa.js': ['app/assets/locale/*.fa.pot']
                    'app/assets/javascripts/locale/translations.fr.js': ['app/assets/locale/*.fr.pot']

                }
            }
        }
```
As you can see in above code we provided two output, each one for a language.

### Using compiled strings
Faalis layouts include a javascript manifest on `app/assets/javascripts/locale/<lang_ode>.js` which should
contains all the compiled javascript code specific to a language. This process is automatic and you only have
to require javascript files in your language manifest. for example:


```javascript
//= require faalis/locale/fa.js
//= require faalis_contact/locale/fa.js
//= require locale/translation.fs
```

As you can see we included the compiled javascript code for `faalis` and `faalis_contact` first and then included
our application `farsi` translation.
